Hey everybody, Opus 4.7 just dropped a
few minutes ago and I thought I'd spend
a couple minutes both talking about the
benchmarks and then running you guys
through my thoughts on the model uh
where things are going relative to
Mythos preview and then the wider
marketplace uh in general. So odds are
if I'm being honest uh Spud or the new
GPT model is likely to drop very quickly
after Opus 4.7. So I'd expect that
sometime in the next few days. Um but
Opus 4.7 is just better in more or less
every way versus Opus 4.6 six. Aside
from one or two key things, which I find
kind of weird, and I'll cover that in a
second. This is the benchmark comparison
scorecard between 4.6 uh uh 4.7, a GPT
5.4, Gemini 3.1 Pro, and then over here
on the right, their Mythos preview,
which if you guys didn't know is like
their Galaxy Brain Intelligence model,
which uh basically hacked the entire
internet just about a week and a half
ago. Now, Opus 4.7 is a step up from
Opus 4.6, six, but it's almost like a
half step, you know, if like if if this
over here is Opus 4.6, then this over
here is Mythos preview, what they've
done is they basically provided us sort
of like a mid tier, okay, halfway
between uh 4.6 and and mythos. And
that's just because they don't really
feel comfortable sharing mythos with
every man, woman, and child on Earth
because according to, you know, the
anthropic staff, they they believe it's
like giving kids nuclear freaking
weapons. So, whatever your beliefs on
that are, um, you know, I can understand
why they're a little bit more reticent,
too, if you know it's capable of hacking
Chrome and and and multiple operating
systems and so on and so forth, but
obviously I would much rather have that
nuclear bomb in my hand. Um, let's go
through the benchmarks real quick. The
software engineering bench pro, which is
sort of like the the main one, uh, well,
pro and verified that they used to test
the abilities of these models to do
things like software engineering, shows
a pretty significant step up from 4.6.
It's from 53.4% 4% to 64.3. So that's
about 10%. Now, I should note that that
is almost mathematically um half of the
step up between Opus 4.6 and Mythos
preview. So I don't know if there's any
like benchmark optimization going on
there. I don't really know exactly how
this model was created under the hood.
Um but it is interesting how many of
these benchmarks do end up as like
literally exactly 50% steps up. My take
on how Opus 4.7 was uh trained is it's
probably mythos preview just distilled
basically dummified down a little bit
and running on a lot faster and and
better hardware. So uh anywh who that's
software engineering bench pro you can
see the exact same thing for software
engineering bench verified um on the
agentic terminal coding what's
interesting is you know 65.4% 69.4% and
then 82. So this is a much smaller step
up and I think this is probably because
this is where a lot of these security
concerns come from like a model's
ability to use, you know, bash scripts
and whatnot and actually control a
terminal uh to do things like ping
various ports and and so on. So part of
me feels like this is the part that's
been disproportionately dumbed down. Of
course, I have no real basis upon which
I'm saying this aside from my own
intuition, so take all that with a grain
of salt. Okay. Then there's humanity's
last exam which you guys are unfamiliar
is uh was kind of like a pretty strong
marketed benchmark that's like you know
this is the most intense set of tasks
that we can ever get an AI model to do
and if they do these tasks then it's
essentially AGI and you can see here
that opus 4.6 scored about 40%. So you
know four out of the 10 questions that
it would get it would do. Opus 4.7
scored 46.9 whereas mythos scored 56.8
8. So, it's almost half of the way
there. And I should note in uh at least
AI time scales, when you're half of the
way there, you're actually kind of like
90% of the way there because typically
the way that these things go is kind of
like this, right? If you're scoring 50%,
you're over here. And realistically, the
gap between your 50% and the 100% is
pretty pretty small. So, my take is most
of these benchmarks are going to be
saturated within one generation. That's
my that's my hot prediction. Um, Agentic
Search for Browse Comp is 79.3%. What's
so fascinating to me is this is that one
situation where Opus 4.6 actually did
better than 4.7. So maybe it's because
they specifically nerfed these two in
tandem with each other. I I don't know.
Maybe that again is like where most of
the computer security concerns came
from. But this is actually going to
underperform relative to Opus 4.6 on
Agentic Search, at least on this um at
least relative to this benchmark. Scaled
tool use is uh I think it's a new
benchmark that they're doing on MCP-
Atlas that did not exist for Mythos
preview. Uh so interestingly enough or
maybe they just didn't do it for mythos
preview but here it scores just a little
bit better than 4.6. Agentic computer
use is you know marginally better as
well. It's very close to mythos
previews. Agentic financial analysis
which is really interesting is a good
4.3% better than Opus 4.6. Uh oh man I'm
already getting tired of doing
benchmarks. Good God, I can't believe
somebody suckered me into making this
video. Cyber security vulnerability
reproductions a little bit worse than
Opus 4.6, which is their attempt to make
it safer. Graduate level reasoning it
crushes on. So this thing is better than
most M's degrees uh at this point. And
not only is it like better
qualitatively, it's also better
quantitatively. We're talking like it
can run thousands of times faster than a
human brain can and parallelize its
instances and so on and so forth. That's
that's no joke. On visual reasoning, we
saw probably the biggest leap up to
date. Um, it got from 69.1% no tools,
basically just raw dogging it, up to
82.1%.
Which is quite quite frankly bonkers. I
mean, like the visual reasoning step up
here is is nuts. I imagine it's almost
like previously the model was looking at
things with uh, you know, like like 15
out of 20 vision and now it's capable of
looking at things with like 19 out of 20
vision. Any opthalmologists watching
this video, I'm sorry. I don't actually
know how that works, but that's more or
less how I'm mapping it in my head. And
then multilingual Q&A uh which Mythos
preview was not tested on and neither
was GBD 5.4 tested on it. It obviously
does a lot better. Okay, so what what
are we seeing here? You know, as
mentioned, it's a big step up from Opus
4.6 in virtually every capacity except
for a couple of ones that are probably
security related. And you know, I don't
want to comment too much on that, but um
I I think I think security is like a
legitimate concern that Anthropic had
with releasing the model. I don't think
they're just like, "Mwah, haha, let's
get together the world's biggest
companies and give them access to the
model to permanent underclass the rest
of us." I think anytime in history
there's been the ability to uh, you
know, point a finger at somebody,
whether a company or organization or
some sort of collective, and then say
they're doing this stuff because they're
evil and they hate us. Yeah, for the
most part, we're we're usually wrong.
It's usually not because they're doing
stuff because they hate us. they're
doing stuff because they have some sort
of incentive or, you know, they believe
strongly that, you know, stuff like this
should not actually come out. And I
can't make judgments as to whether or
not that's the right thing to do. But,
um, you know, as somebody that's been
working with model technology now for
just about 7 years, uh, you know, I've
seen models go through a lot of change.
You know, back when I started my first
business, uh, one of my first
businesses, I was going door to door
and, um, also cold calling companies
trying to sell them like local marketing
services. And at the time I could reach
maybe 10 or 15 of these businesses in an
hour. Today with something like Opus 4.6
I can reach over 5,000 in that same time
period. And it's not that I'm reaching
them with equivalent levels of outreach.
I'm reaching them with way more
customized higher quality outreach. So I
mean like just think about that leverage
increase and think about something that
can potentially do another 10 or 20x on
top of that. Really giving that to every
man, woman, and child on Earth is uh
probably a little bit irresponsible
unless it comes with like a fair amount
of training and preparation across the
board. So yeah, where do I think this
stuff is going? If I'm being completely
honest with you, this doesn't
fundamentally change anything. I think a
lot of people are probably going to be
making videos on this and blog posts and
you'll see a bunch of X threads all
about how everything is over. But, you
know, this has been a steady incremental
progression over the course of the last
like 3 or 4 years. What you could have
done with AI 3 years ago, you can do
now. It's just you can do it now in kind
of a sloppier and looser way and still
get the same results. Like think about
anything that you might actually use AI
for. Fundamentally speaking, the
technology that you bet has been around
for the last like three years or so.
It's just back then you need to build a
bunch of scaffolding around it and you
need to be highly specific with your
prompts and you need to ask it in just
the right way. Whereas now you can just,
you know, throw in a prompt raw dog and
like 80% of the time it'll do a pretty
good job. So does this open up any new
applications? Not really. My main take
is that AI does not make things possible
anymore. It just makes things slightly
more profitable anymore. And there are
some business use cases uh that used to
not be profitable that are now
profitable simply because you can throw
AI at it. You do things like you know
personalize large amounts of out
outreach in a very quick way or perform
a lot of financial analysis in a in a
very fast and easy manner. But it's not
like you know we're we're we're
producing something from nothing. I
think if you want to actually go to that
point, you have to go way back to 2020
when OpenAI dropped GPT3 and you started
legitimately be able be being able to do
things like give a natural uh uh request
to a model and then have it convert it
into some sort of bash command. Like
that to me was the zero to one moment.
Everything else has just been like
horizontal expansion of the capability.
So I mean you're going to have to build
fewer harnesses uh in order to achieve
the same result. Alternatively, you
could use the model to build better
harnesses for the model to achieve
better results. But these are all just
little percentile shifts up and down.
We're seeing commoditization of models
like this now because of this obsession
with benchmarks where uh you know people
are just picking whatever model has like
a slightly higher score on X thing or Y
thing. But at the same time, I also
think due to the slight personality
differences of these models, you know,
if you're picking uh you know, Opus 4.6
six because sorry Opus 4.7 because it
has a 77.3%
skill on scaled tool use versus I don't
know hypothetically Opus 4.6 because it
has 75.8%.
And you know there there's a big
personality shift between these two
models. You you might as well just stick
with the one that's already working
pretty well for you and then just build
better scaffolding around it versus like
having to go and sort of rejig your mind
or rechange your infrastructure.
Obviously between one Opus model and the
next that's not a big deal because the
API specs and endpoints are the exact
same. But consider that maybe with
something like um I don't know this
slight difference between GPT 5.4 and
then Opus 4.6. Over the course of the
last couple months, I've seen so many
people switching from Opus 4.6 to GBT
5.4 because they're chasing like a 3 to
4% higher score in agenda coding, but
then they also have to like completely
rejig their entire infrastructure to
accommodate that. Obviously, the models
are trying to make it easy to port from
one group to the other, but that sort of
commoditization, I think, is um rather
unfortunate and probably gets in the way
more than it actually fixes things. So,
yeah, I mean, my take on all of this
again is just don't chase the shiny
objects. The models are going to
continue getting better. There's going
to be a lot of noise and a lot of news
about them, but that doesn't necessarily
mean you have to stop everything you're
doing and flip all of your
infrastructure to Opus 4.7 because, as
you can see, this is just a marginal
kind of step up improvement towards uh
towards Mythos. Hopefully that makes
sense. If I pissed anybody off by
posting a video within a few minutes of
the news, hopefully I didn't piss you
off too much. I don't really like making
this a news channel, but I was online
when I got the notification, and I
figured I'd help interpret this for some
people that maybe had less time. Have a
lovely rest of the day, and I'll catch
all y'all in the next video. See you.